# Gluster Community Meeting -  22nd Sept 2020


### Previous Meeting minutes:

- http://github.com/gluster/community
- Recording of this meeting-

### Date/Time: Check the [community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1?cid=dmViajVibDBrbnNiOWQwY205ZWg5cGJsaTRAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ)

### Bridge
* APAC/EMEA friendly hours
  - Tuesday 22nd Sept 2020, 02:30PM IST
  - Bridge: https://bluejeans.com/441850968
* NA
  - Every 1st and 3rd Tuesday at 01:00 PM EDT
  - Bridge: https://bluejeans.com/118564314


-------

### Attendance
Name (#gluster-dev alias) - company
* Shwetha Acharya (Host) - Red Hat
* Aravinda VK - Kadalu.IO
* Amar Tumballi - Kadalu.IO
* Srijan Sivakumar - Red hat
* Nikhil Ladha - Red Hat
* Sheetal Pamecha - Red Hat
* Sunil Kumar  - Red Hat
* Rafi KC -iTernity
* Sunny - Red Hat
* Csaba Henk - Red Hat

### User stories
* None

### Community

* Project metrics:

|    Metrics                |   Value  |
| ------------------------- | -------- |
|[Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/gluster-glusterfs)  | 77  |
|[Clang Scan](https://build.gluster.org/job/clang-scan/lastBuild/) |   82  |
|[Test coverage](https://build.gluster.org/job/line-coverage/lastCompletedBuild/Line_20Coverage_20Report/)|    70.9 |
|[Gluster User Queries in last 14 days](https://lists.gluster.org/pipermail/gluster-users/2020-September/thread.html)        |     17     |
|[Total Github issues](https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues)       |    545   |


* Coverity False issues -
    * Fix them as comment in code
    * Mark in dashboard

* Any release updates?
    * 8.2 realesing on wednesday(23-09-2020)
    * [Saju] look for release 9 issues and plan 
    * [Amar] Review https://review.gluster.org/#/c/glusterfs/+/25019/ - reduces repetative logs, improves debugging

* Blocker issues across the project?
    * Migration to github - https://review.gluster.org/#/c/glusterfs/+/24860/

* Notable thread form mailing list
    https://github.com/gluster/glusterfs/issues/1499

### Conferences / Meetups

* [PyCon India](https://in.pycon.org/2020/)

Important dates:

Event dates:https://in.pycon.org/2020/#schedule
Venue: Online

* [hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/)

Event dates: The whole month of October.
Venue: Online


### Developer focus

* Any design specs to discuss?
    * Monitoring tools for gluster


### Component status
* Arbiter - none
* AFR - Ravi posted a patch on enable granular entry heal on default
* DHT - barak working on implementing global layout
* DOC - none
* Geo Replication - none
* Glusterd - few new patches
* thin-arbiter - adding Functionality for add-brick, remove brick for ta 


### Recent Blog posts / Document / Projects updates
* https://medium.com/@yuriizozulynskyi/%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%B9%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BD%D0%B3-keep-%D0%BD%D0%B0-raspberry-pi-%D0%BA%D0%BB%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B5-%D1%81-ansible-kubernets-k3s-glusterfs-%D0%B8-%D0%BC%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B3%D0%B8%D0%BC-%D0%B4%D1%80%D1%83%D0%B3%D0%B8%D0%BC-9d6e374eaf94
* [Using Events in GlusterFS](https://medium.com/dev-genius/eventing-feature-in-glusterfs-e842d5f9bc5)
* [Aravinda] Good progress on gdash(Gluster dashboard) project, formal release in another week https://github.com/kadalu/gdash


### Gluster Friday Five
* Every friday we release this, which basically covers highlight of week in gluster. Also, you can find more videos in youtube link.
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfilWh0JA5NfCjbqq1vsBVA


### Host

* Who will host next meeting?
     Nikhil
  - Host will need to send out the agenda 24hr - 12hrs in advance to mailing list, and also make sure to send the meeting minutes.
  - Host will need to reach out to one user at least who can talk about their usecase, their experience, and their needs.
  - Host needs to send meeting minutes as PR to http://github.com/gluster/community
  - Host has to send the meeting minutes as a mail to the gluster-devel and gluster-users list.


### Notetaker
 Nikhil
* Who will take notes from the next meeting?


### RoundTable
* [saju]Reccuring meeting invite to be sent


### Action Items on host
* Check-in Minutes of meeting for this meeting
